hey guys what's up this is a temporary
update podcast and that's unusual for me
most of whatever cord I'm thinking will
last five years will last 100 years will
be there for my daughter to hear one day
and this is not I would like to make a
more philosophical and reflective video
for youtube or for you guys as a podcast
here on patreon soon reflecting on this
event but long story short to just
provide a quick update today this is May
31st in Thailand yesterday May thirtieth
I had a run-in with a guy named Jimmy we
actually bumped into each other three
times in the same day spread out over a
period of eight hours and that did come
close to a fistfight twice the first
events at noon and the last event is at
8pm so says even a tower split uh maybe
at seven-forty-five last night but they
don't know you know the problem is
partly that there will prob there will
still be rumors spreading about this
today I think the rumors will be based
on the run and we had with each other at
noon but I came here to Thailand
completely prepared for the possibility
of someone assaulting me completely
prepared for someone trying to instigate
a fistfight or escalate a situation into
a physical conflict and it's a good
thing i'm prepared because that's
exactly what happened yesterday with
this guy named Jimmy Jimmy you know he
literally wears a vegan t-shirt he's
part of the pro durianrider seen here he
didn't he doesn't seem to have a lot of
friends I'm not saying that to him sult
him but I mean he wasn't he wasn't
acting with a group of people backing
him up or a posse or something he was
very much acting alone in trying to
start a fistfight now the reason why I
want to do a more philosophical set of
reflections on this in the future is
that how I handled this really does
reflect my own background and philosophy
and what I call real philosophy if you
think about what Socrates was doing you
think about peripatetic method in
ancient Greece the ability to talk to
someone on the street literally to talk
to someone who's upset about a war upset
about justice and injustice upset about
real problems and to take that
discussion and make
get philosophical to deal with the
profound underlying issues instead of
just dealing with ego or dealing with
anger and instead of having a fistfight
that is from my perspective a crucial
part of real philosophy although I do
not get to define what's real philosophy
and what's fake philosophy I'm just
saying from my perspective that's where
it's at so I think there are deeper
issues here that are worth talking about
but to give a short shallow version of
what happened at noon I met Leah at a
mall that has a vegan food court in the
basement sorry it's a food court that
has all kinds of food but one of the
stalls is a vegan buffet so it's a food
court that has a vegan option available
and the seating is really crowded there
it's a bunch of seats at a long wooden
table so there are a whole lot of Thai
people they're all sitting down this
table it's you know it's lunchtime it's
busy there are just a lot of people
period and I actually sat down initially
just with Leah and with one israeli guy
and israeli vegan who is pro durianrider
and is doing the whole long-distance
cycling thing and he was very literally
doing the permanent vacation thing he's
here on long-term vacation riding up and
down the same motor the writing riding
his bicycle epiny on the same mountain
every day etc um but this Israeli guy
even though he knew who I was and you
might youtube channel and you know he
appreciated me and wanted to talk with
me although obviously is a fan of during
writer which you know shows maturity and
what have you you can be a fan of both I
mean I talked about City Hall
durianrider talks about weight loss you
know you can be a fan of both real
politics and whatever it is during
writer sewing I don't really have
anything against that on a problem with
that but anyway this guy Jimmy he joined
us and several other vegans joined us
also and the several other vegans who I
don't really know I could see you from
the way they looked at me they knew who
I was they had some sense that I was an
important person or some sense that it
was dangerous for them to be sitting
down with me you know what I mean you
could see they were apprehensive but the
whole situation but they weren't rude or
anything um so you know it is what it is
so quite a few other vegans kind of
drifted into the room and some sat down
with us not all but this guy Jimmy was
was
looking for his first opportunity to
start a fight start a fistfight and I
guess I'm not going to get into details
this recording of exactly who said what
but there he did you know come to the
edge of throwing punches he was you know
trembling with rage and stuff and I
reacted in terms of what I said how I
said it I remained calm because I was
used to this and also because the actual
content of what he was saying is all
stuff I could handle he did say some
things that sounded anti-semitic and if
you're an outsider listening to it
because he was jumping in on a
conversation i had with was having with
this israeli guy you know i do not i do
not believe he's anti-semitic i think he
was just angry and looking for an excuse
he was looking for excuse to say
something so outrageous that it was
going to cause a fistfight that's it was
trying to do and what he said he was
accusing me of being racist against
Palestinians good luck with that I'm not
a pro Zionist I'm not racist against
Palestinians but whatever and i'm also
not offended if you say that I am so we
can talk about it but anyway not the
best tactic but what he said did come
out sounding offensive and stupid and
anti-semitic which again I don't think
he meant and then he immediately
followed that up I did respond a pretty
detached way to the content of what he
was saying but he then fold that up by
saying what was really on his mind by
denouncing me as as being some kind of
critic of during writer and demanding to
know what I was doing here anyway how
dare i come to chiang mai anyway now I
did respond to that and you know the
chain law has been a big part of my life
for more than 10 years I told them of
the living in Southeast Asia I mean yeah
I was just not responding to this by
escalating the conflict I was also not
afraid as I've said here recently I'm
not a nice guy you know if this guy
wants a fist fight with me broad
daylight all right let's do it you
really want to throw punches in the
middle of a crowded mall in the food
court of a mall it's full of people well
we're both going to spend the night in
prison if you do that you know Thai
authorities they won't care who started
the fight or who said what you know
they'll put us in both in jail for maybe
one night maybe a couple nights and then
probably let you out i mean you know
Thai authorities have a lot of
experience dealing with drum
an unruly tourists they probably did not
have as much experience dealing with
completely clean and sober vegans
starting a fist fight over nothing in a
food court but hey the cops will treat
you the same way as they'll treat some
stoned you know drunks in a bar who
start a fist fight over nothing you know
sir all right you know I'm not afraid to
go to prison I'm not afraid to handle
this fist fight you know my attitude but
in terms of what I actually said back to
him I did just address the substance of
what he was saying and I was also tried
inform about Who I am because these
people he hadn't watched any of my
videos on YouTube he just had some vague
idea of me as as an enemy of the people
and he was trying to show you know his
fealty to the cult that's what it is
he's trying to show that he's the most
loyal disciple without understanding
what's going on or why any of it matters
and above all else you know he's wearing
a t-shirt that says save the planet he's
not trying to save the planet starting a
fistfight with me he's not trying to
save the planet by denouncing me for
being a Jew good luck homeboy anyway
also a Jimmy Jimmy's a big guy just
mentioned a he's I'm 643 he's about the
same height as me and he's big all over
so you know would have been a would have
been a real fight you know unlike
someone dramatically larger dramatics
dramatically smaller than me he's
definitely much younger than me i would
guess his age at twenty-one twenty-two
twenty-three could be off no big deal
but anyway that situation ended because
the minute i was just responding but
breaking it was a hey man if you want to
make it happen we can make it happen but
look you know this is who I am I've been
doing scholarship of Southeast Asia for
you no more than a decade I don't know
since when since 2002 2003 or something
you know I've been coming going to
Chiang Mai I lived in Thailand for years
Laos Cambodia this area Thailand Laos
Cambodia yin and you know this is this
is what I'm about I've been coming here
since before there was any vegan
festival I'm a you know I'm somebody
trying to organize political activism
you know for veganism and ecological
change or the Internet whatever man see
me when you seek me like you know is
this is this really a problem and you
know he is part of it you know he was
trembling I wouldn't say with rage
you know when guys get into that mindset
your true he's trembling because you
know he's got the adrenaline going and
you know uh his instincts are all acting
up and you know at a pretty early stage
he stood up you know he wasn't sitting
in his seat he was standing up over this
table in the food court and you know he
started putting all of his food onto one
plate so he could move away to another
table so I guess at that point I guess
he'd already given up the idea of
actually having a fistfight with me that
minute but he was still trying to show
what a tough guy he was and how much he
could intimidate me or insult me or
disrespect me I guess to this event had
a fair number of witnesses and I'm
guessing different stories about it are
still circulating like today and I
assume Jimmy himself has told some
distorted version of the story or tried
to make me sound like an [ __ ] or
something as I say whether or not
someone observing it whether or not they
think I was a nice guy and handling it I
did handle it and you know I responded
to someone disrespecting me and
threatening me in a way that was you
know relatively respectful and
controlled but still you know commanding
and forceful and saying look this is my
table like you know you said there to
join me I didn't disrespect you you
disrespected me where we take it from
here um so you know it is what it is but
because you know you're not gonna have a
kind of fistfight in the mall as a joke
oh it's not you know he could have
thrown a punch or two but I mean this is
not not really gonna go anywhere uh but
I mean he was trying to instigate
something and I knew very well you know
this can spill over this can carry on
this can happen tomorrow night or
something else so that is why wouldn't
handle it I bumped into him once more on
the street when he was on his bike he
shouted crude insults at me from his
bicycle as a couple hours later um and
then I bumped into him again on the
street 745 or 8pm when I was walking
Leah home Lee and I talked for eight
hours solid from New today p.m. and
there as I say on the street so he was
again that started off being on the edge
of having a real fistfight
I'm not going to get the details who
said what but I did handle that and
really philosophical way and the
positive thing that came out of that
discussion on the street corner that
started with him being on the edge of
having a street fight with me and of him
saying he didn't want to talk to me at
all and refuse to talk to me and I
managed to transform that into a
relatively you know informative exchange
of views I managed to make that into a
philosophical conversation and where he
really learned who I am what I'm about
and what motivates me and you know
whether or not he respects it his whole
attitude changed his whole understanding
the situation changed and you know his
assumptions about who I was were
obviously challenged and you know it
ended with no possibility i don't think
that guy's going to start a fistfight
with me today tomorrow or ever and I
think if he's now going to tell the
story of what happened yesterday he
would not tell such a crude and
insulting version but as say like eight
hours passed so probably during that
eight hours he told a lot of people some
version that story and other people the
other witnesses there might have told
some version of it you know whether the
it's just to make me sound like a jerk
or what but in a sense that's a shame
because the final conversation we had it
at eight o'clock on the street on the
street corner with only me him and Lee
us there's only one of their witness to
that it's just the three of us there you
know that did have a positive outcome in
the end but again if you witness that
you might think I'm a real nice guy in a
sense I'm not in a sense you know what
I'm doing is handling that situation and
ultimately my attitude was you know from
start to finish if you want to have this
fistfight you know okay we're going to
do it now you know if that's what it's
got to be that's what it's got to be I
was completely willing to you know
resort to violence or you know spend the
night in jail or what have you but I
mean among the last things I said to
them because i'm going to say I in that
conversation I really won in the sense
that you know transformed the whole
situation as attitude towards it but you
know at the end of that conversation I
was saying things to him like look man
you're welcome to disagree with me on
the internet if you watch my youtube
channel and you disagree with nine
things out of ten that I say that's
great I'm happy for you but there's one
thing at a time we still have in common
that's the thing written on your t-shirt
okay your t-shirt says vegan your
t-shirt says you're trying to save the
planet why don't you really think about
how different this whole situation would
be if you were actually motivated to
save the planet you know so as I say
there are actually a lot of sort of
deeper things to reflect on coming out
of that whole scenario for now this is
long story short this is just to put
this this update out from a patreon
supporters and you know I hope nothing
worth worse comes of it today from my
perspective you know problem got
addressed and I was willing to address
it I've you know my preference was to
address it philosophically to deal with
things non-violently I'm never out here
looking to cause a ruckus to make
someone respect me as soon as you have
the idea that you have to punish someone
for disrespecting you you got you got
the wrong attitude towards life I'm not
trying to make anyone respect me from my
perspective he's welcome to make videos
that disrespect me or disagree with me
that's part of democracy freedom of
speech and all that so I'm not trying to
make him respect me but if you're going
to violate me if you're actually going
to assault me then yes I'm gonna fight
back and yes we're going to have to
resolve it that way because that's the
situation you created Jimmy it was
choice you made and I was a hundred
percent prepared for that every time I
bumped into him yesterday we bumped into
each other three times even though it's
not my preference and I did I did get
what I wanted I got my preference I got
to deal with it philosophically and it
was on the level of philosophy that i
won so you know what can I tell you
reading Aristotle and Socrates and all
that it has some has some practical
value in life even when you're dealing
with such what might seem to be such a
kind of immature silly and stupid
situation alright guys that's enough for
now hopefully I'm not giving you another
update like three hours from now about
another fist fight that broke out or
something but I mean it's it's real
and I mean obviously Leah and I talked
for so many hours there were a lot of
reflections on you know the good and the
bad and the ugly of what's going on here
and this kind of cult mentality that's
developed around one form of veganism
but you know I said to him some things
that you've heard me say on youtube
before too like I said to him look man I
try to cooperate with people I have all
kinds of differences from I don't really
have that much in common with Hania that
much come with Jason you know but were
vegan and I'm trying to make something
positive effort I'm trying to cooperate
and collaborate with all kinds of people
and I mentioned I talked to him about
the the Mormon woman plant-based hippie
you know she's a conservative mormon you
know but she's vegan some things we have
in common and some things we don't and
I'm interested in building on the comic
r and stuff and again that part of it
that was already after I kind of you
know settled his hostility at it kind of
overcome we're not on the edge of having
a fistfight at that moment anymore but
obviously that was a new idea for him
that was a fundamentally different way
of thinking about veganism and what he's
doing in Chiang Mai and what I'm doing
in Chiang Mai and what he's doing on
that street corner trying to instigate a
[ __ ] punch up with me that's a
different way from seeing though of
seeing the world and of course what it's
different from is exactly what he sees
on durian writers youtube channel and
the ideologies that he has fashioned for
himself partly out of durianrider partly
also probably he gets some of his
attitude from gary Yourofsky probably
get some of his attitude from other
sources I don't know you know he's got
his own mentality his own view of the
world these put together in these bits
and pieces and yeah as simple as that
sounds my saying to him you know I
actually try to cooperate with a
conservative mormon who you know
believes pornography is evil and I try
to cooperate with you know all kinds of
people who are of different religions
and different beliefs and different
political values and I do it because I'm
really vegan I'm really trying to save
the planet I'm really concerned about
the ecology and ethics of veganism that
for him Ultima think that's a message
he's going to carry with him
for the rest of his life but otherwise
look man at this age you know I'm not
getting any prettier I don't mind
getting the bruises I don't mind getting
my teeth knocked out I don't mind
spending the night in prison I don't
mind getting uglier I don't mind putting
my blood down on the concrete if that's
what it's gotta be then that's what it's
got to be it's not my preference I'd
rather win exactly the way I one in this
scenario but anybody can get it and for
me at age 37 homeboy on a deep level I
do not care if I live or die and that is
a difference between me and all you
fake-ass tough guys who are out here on
permanent vacation okay y'all you guys
are here ultimately for the sake of
vanity and I never was I was here for
meaningful reasons doing real things
whether it's the humanitarian research
the historical research the language
research everything you guys are you
guys on patreon I've heard me talk about
this stuff to death but it was real for
me then it's real for me now this is a
part of my life and that's why I talked
about it on YouTube and freely and
durian writer or a part of my life
that's what Doug about them on YouTube
and all I talk about on YouTube is being
honest to build my real life whether
it's my divorce or my job situation of
the languages i'm studying but i'm out
here really trying to do something
positive so if you're out here trying to
start a fist fight over nothing you
gotta look in the mirror and examine
your means your motives and how it is
you're trying to make the world a better
place